= Installation for developers on Debian 8 (Jessie)

This a short explanation on installation steps for developers.

Architecture is assumed to be +amd64+. Replace it where it's necessary.

We assume that you are a valid sudoer. To get ready, add your account in +sudo+ group.

    su
    apt-get install sudo # if you don't know if sudo is installed
    adduser bob sudo

Logout and login and you can sudo.

== 1. Dependencies

Before all, add PostgreSQL APT repository (See http://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/debian/ for more information):

    echo 'deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt/ jessie-pgdg main' | sudo tee --append /etc/apt/sources.list
    wget --quiet -O - https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
    sudo apt-get update

Then, install all distribution dependencies:

    sudo apt-get install imagemagick graphicsmagick tesseract-ocr tesseract-ocr-ara tesseract-ocr-jpn tesseract-ocr-fra tesseract-ocr-eng tesseract-ocr-spa pdftk libreoffice poppler-utils poppler-data ghostscript openjdk-7-jdk libicu52 redis-server postgresql-9.5-postgis-2.2 postgresql-contrib-9.5 libcurl4-openssl-dev openjdk-7-jdk libgeos-dev libgeos++-dev libproj-dev libpq-dev libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev zlib1g-dev libicu-dev libqtwebkit-dev

== 2. Ruby

Install Ruby 2.2.3. If your distribution isn't up-to-date, you need to install {rbenv}[https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv] to install the good version ({RVM}[https://rvm.io] can be used if you prefer):

* Before install, marke sure you have compilation dependencies:
    sudo apt-get install git build-essential libreadline-dev
* {Installation of rbenv}[https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv#installation]
    git clone https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
    echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
    echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
    source ~/.bashrc
* {Installation of ruby-build}[https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build#installation] which permit to download and compile ruby compiler for rbenv
    git clone https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
* Install ruby 2.2.3:
    rbenv install 2.2.3
* Set this compiler as the default:
    rbenv global 2.2.3

== 3. Get sources

* Clone sources from repository
    git clone https://github.com/ekylibre/ekylibre.git /path/to/ekylibre

== 4. Configure Database

* Go at sources root:
    cd /path/to/ekylibre

* Create a PostgreSQL superuser for Ekylibre
    sudo su postgres
    createuser -s -P ekylibre

* Copy +config/database.yml.sample+ into +config/database.yml+.
    cp config/database.yml.sample config/database.yml

* Update your +database.yml+ in +config/+ with your informations like in this example:

    default: &default
      adapter: postgis
      encoding: unicode
      pool: 5
      postgis_extension: []
      schema_search_path: public,postgis
      username: ekylibre
      password: ekylibre
      host: 127.0.0.1

    development:
      <<: *default
      database: ekylibre_development

  If you haven't customized PostgreSQL configuration, you must set +host+ parameter to 127.0.0.1

== 5. Configure ruby dependencies

Rjb gem use Java OpenJDK, so we need to set JAVA_HOME to install gem.

* Install bundler:
    gem install bundler

* Install gems with bundler:
    JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-7-openjdk-amd64 bundle install

  Or you can add the following lines in your +~/.bashrc+ in your home directory and run +bundle install+ after:
    export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-7-openjdk-amd64

The last operation could take time.

== 6. Initialize database

* Create and migrate database:
    rake db:create db:migrate

See {rails guide}[http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_migrations.html#running-migrations] for more informations on migrations.

== 7. Create an empty farm

* Execute command:
    rake tenant:init TENANT=my-little-farm

* Add in +/etc/hosts+ a line to configure an artificial subdomain corresponding to your instance:
     echo '127.0.0.1 my-little-farm.ekylibre.lan' | sudo tee --append /etc/hosts

== 8. Try it

* Launch server:
    foreman start

* Open your web browser and go to http://my-little-farm.ekylibre.lan:8080
